---
layout: default
title: December 12, 2021 Meeting Minutes
parent: Board Meeting Minutes
---
This is a copy of a PDF. You can find the original [here](https://www.epmfl.net/_files/ugd/4ba896_37d29c9faa17492caab9ef044089ddb7.pdf){:target="_blank"}. ([backup](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1A-FrRPgCp6sxCKa_ScKegIkpcJmkryd0/view?usp=sharing){:target="_blank"})


# Board Meeting December 9, 2021
7000 Spanish Trail Pensacola Fl 32504
Meeting Minutes

I. Meeting called to order at 5:30 PM by Patty Martinez POB. We have a quorum
II. Patty said minutes of last meeting 11/16/2021 needed to be amended: 1) Tarp placement by
M&H on Building A; M&H should place a tarp on the roof of the building and if they do not,
the HOA would pay for the placement of a tarp. 2) M&H removal of the tractor trailer, mobile
office, and trucks; Jay to contact M&H to request removal Taylor Loftin made a motion to
amend the minutes, seconded by Daniel. The measure passed unanimously. Patty discussed the
issues with M&H and the lack of accountability of same. Patty wants to try get the roofs and
siding done by the end of Jan 2022. Angie Holbrook brought up issues with both the new and
the old gutters. Barry Boyd also said there were problems with the new gutters. Patty said we
need to reassess the gutters and would contact M&H. It was mentioned that the drains and
down pipes may be clogged with leaves and other debris. It was also brought up that the power
vents were not working on the buildings that had new roofs installed. M&H will be contacted to
resolve the issues arising from the new roofs being installed.
The status of the cameras at the pool was brought up and Cliff Kirk informed the board that the
new parts ordered to repair the camera system did not solve the problem. Cliff will look into the
original cost of the system so we can file an insurance claim. Timers or actually photocells for
the common area lighting on were discussed and Jay Schwartz said that an electrician had been
contacted for the F building top floor light fixture that needs replacement.
III. Pool report: Jay said Acadian Pools had a quote for complete pool system but has not received
the quote in writing. 3rd quote from an independent operator was obtained. Barry Boyd had
additional questions about the pool, it was suggested that the vote on the quote be tabled until
the January HOA meeting. Pool quotes discussion tabled until quote from Acadian pools
obtained.
Patty requested the management company to track and update the board on work orders and
maintenance issues on a monthly basis. Jay asked for clarification on work order tracking and
what projects are currently being tracked. Patty clarified what is needed for tracking. Jay stated
that he did not have knowledge of Excel to perform the request. Taylor Loftin gave the group an
overview of how tracking is done within the Loftin firm. Jay said that this suggestion was not a
problem to implement, Patty also asked for a priority management system to keep tabs on
current projects. Sven Martinez gave the group an overview of what the status is in reference to
a video surveillance system. Patty brought up landscaping and the sprinkler system. It was
postponed until the Jan 2022 meeting.
Patty reviewed the financial statements and there were some errors in the statements. Patty
pointed out that with the new board we need to get new officers on the signature cards and
remove all of the former board members. A motion was made by Taylor Loftin and seconded by
Daniel Dorman to remove John Amentler and Mary Noland from the operating, reserve, and

CD accounts, to be replaced by Patty Martinez Jason Robbins, and Daniel Dorman, and to
require two signatures on checks issued by the Association The motion passed unanimously.
More discussion related to the address the bank statements were being sent to and the content of
same i.e.: CD maturity and operating account, was discussed. Patty had a question about the
total amount spent on general maintenance, Jay said he would send her the details of the
expenditures for 2021.
A series of HOA meetings for the 2022 year was proposed by Patty via handout, 2nd by Barry
passed unanimously. For dates see attached sheet.
Patty established “Exploratory Working Groups”
1. Insurance – Taylor Loftin, Patty
2. Community Events – Daniel
3. Landscaping & Trees – Jason Robbins, Daniel, Brian
4. Building Maintenance & Roads and Re-Stripping parking lots and roads – Barry Boyd,
Taylor, Patty
5. Budget – Patty ,Daniel, Jason, Taylor
6. Pool & Pool Furniture – Barry Boyd, Patty
7. Update By-Laws – Jason Daniel, Patty
IV. Management company stated they could not explain the financials as it was not their
responsibility and could not adjust. Jay recommended hiring an accountant to explain the
financials and adjust. Patty asked for a motion to hire an accountant to help with the transition
of the HOA books from Realty Masters to the new company LCMFL. Taylor Loftin made the
motion to hire an accountant to clarify where the HOA stands, Daniel Dorman 2nd it and it
passed unanimously. The next topic by Patty was the need for Reserve Survey Study. Tabled for
future discussion.
V. Discussed the “Meet & Greet” from Saturday Dec 11, motion made to move the date to Sunday
12th of December by Daniel Dorman. Taylor Loftin 2nd the motion and it passed unanimously.
Patty proposed that all of the breezeway lights be upgrade and purchase newer LED lights.
Barry Boyd made the motion and Taylor Loftin 2nd it, passed unanimously. Patty wants a
meeting with Sugar Tree in reference to the upkeep on the easement which Sugar Tree owns
which separates the two properties. Daniel Dorman made the motion to meet with the Officer or
President of Sugar Tree association Taylor Loftin 2nd it and it passed unanimously. Patty asked
Jay to reach out to the Sugar Tree board to set up the meeting. The next item was discussion
about the covers for the pumps for the sprinkler system; options were to build new covers or
purchase faux rock covers. Patty made a motion to purchase faux rock covers and Barry Boyd
2nd it. Passed unanimously.
Patty asked about policy for dryer vent cleaning, Jay stated that that the dryer ducting and
exterior vents are a HOA responsibility. Patty brought up that there are discrepancies between
stated responsibilities of the HOA in the Rules and Regulations vs. the Condominium
Declaration. It was suggested the HOA obtain an opinion from the lawyer. Taylor Loftin
supported obtaining quotes on cleaning the ducts/repairs, but that HOA was not claiming
responsibility at this time, pending legal opinion. Taylor Loftin made the motion to get legal
opinion from lawyer and obtain quotes on cleaning the ducting and replacing the exterior vents.
Daniel Dorman 2nd Passed unanimously. Patty said that some sort of tracking system is needed
to keep up with the ongoing status of the dryer system so if it is cleaned by the resident or the

HOA the HOA can keep the maintenance logs.
Wasp nests were discussed, Sven Martinez stated he could purchase spray and handle the nests.
Motion made to allow Sven to purchase wasp spray and handle nests, and to be reimbursed by
the HOA for expenses was made by Taylor Loftin and 2nd by Daniel Dorman, approved
unanimously.
Motion to adjourn was made at 712PM by Patty Martinez 2nd by Taylor Loftin, passed unanimously.
Please direct all inquiries or corrections to:
Cliff Kirk, Secretary Spyglass Condominium Association