---
title: 2022-05-12 Meeting Minutes
parent: Board Meeting Minutes
pdf24: true
---

This is an automatic transcription of a PDF. You can find the original [here](https://www.epmfl.net/_files/ugd/4ba896_ad30c3e2a45340029c33ff9ce6c24105.pdf){:target="_blank"}. ([backup](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hCuH9mYYEHHfgWDJPK1evGRgrNpH3Y6r/view?usp=sharing){:target="_blank"})

# Board Meeting May 12, 2022

Spyglass Point Condominium Association of Pensacola, Inc.

Board Meeting Minutes
May 12, 2022 (Thursday)/5:30 PM
Tryon Branch Library
1200 Langley Avenue
Pensacola, FL 32504

1. Call meeting to order and establish quorum
7 of 8 board member’s present: Patty Martinez, President (via Facetime audio/visual); Daniel Dorman,
Vice President & Secretary; Jason Robbins, Treasurer; Angela Henrichs; Barry Boyd; Clif Cirk; Natalia
Chapman
Absent: John Amentler
2. Review of minutes from Board Meeting 4/21/2022
No questions or amendments to meeting minutes from 4/21/2022
e Clif Cirk motioned to accept the meeting minutes from 4/21/2022, seconded by Jason Robbins;
passed unanimously.
o 7 Yes votes: Patty Martinez, (via Facetime audio/visual), Daniel Dorman, Jason Robbins,
Angela Henrichs, Barry Boyd, Clif Cirk, Natalia Chapman

3. Financial review ending 4/30/2022
e No present updates
4. Old Business
a. Update status on repairs to common elements - 1) pool renovation/repairs to pool and deck;
anticipated grand opening ceremony, 2) repair and seal coating street and paint lines & letter & number to
curbs
Pool has been completed, one electrical issue left to be corrected which will not prevent anyone from
safely swimming in the pool. Seal coating and paint lines work to begin in the coming week, Ethridge has
sent out notice via email and posted notice to doors. Letter numbers will be painted following completion
of the seal coat and line work.
- Completed Reserve CDs and establish checking account at The First Bank
HOA has cashed out the reserve CD’s and established a checking account at the First Bank. Daniel
Dorman picked up the checks from and gave them to the Jason Robbins who will deliver those to the
Property Management company.
b. Status on Structural Engineer with Joe DeRuil Assoc.,
Engineers have been on site conducting their work.
c. Status on financial audit/review & Reserve Study
Reserve study continues to progress, may not have that until end of June. Once we obtain that information
we can send to owners.
d. Status on M & H Insurance Claim Status/Repairs — Hurricane Sally

board will have to have a meeting with the Insurance attorney on retainer as
Spoke with the Attomey: the legal team. Meeting date with M&H has failed to remit the requested documentation to the HOA or
the board and attorneys has yet to be set.
e. Status on Fines Committee and amendments
Spoke with attorney; she was fine with the policy that Patty and Daniel drafted. Will be amending the fee
schedule that was initially proposed. Recommendation from the attorney was to escalate in the manner
outlined in the Florida statute; $100.00 per day for 10 days, maximum of a $1000 per violation. Fines
Committee has its members established. Board has been sending out Violation letters and people have
been responding to and correcting the issues identified.
f. Next Report on Food Truck event
Have reached out and followed up to two food trucks; response has been silent. Will reach out to
LoneStar for further recommendations on food trucks. 3D Eats issues in remitting documentation
prevented the event from moving forward with the event.
g. Status on repair of easement to the drainage pond
Work began on Monday — work is ongoing.
Ad-Hoc update from Barry Boyd on issues:
-Questions about pool house restrooms being cleaned, Aquatic Edge would clean the restrooms for an
additional $100.00 per month. Other offer was $200 per month; Aquatic Edge is doing a good job,
recommendation is to continue with their services. Updated contract to include bathroom cleaning
services will be drafted and sent to Patty for review.
-Ethridge requested to write a letter to ECUA so we do not get charged for 36,000 gallons to fill the pool;
may require account number for pool house. Barry to email Ethridge. Clif Cirk brought up water main
break, ECUA informed Barry that we are on an “estimated” usage. Invoices reviewed after the event did
not seem out of the ordinary.
h. Status to repair drainage problem from the pool roof to add a gutter.
Work will begin on Monday 16+.
i, Status on Vending machine in the pool
Sent an email out to the board regarding the options for the machine. Machine may have 360 bottles with
12 options. Will have to get a 110v outlet and dedicated breaker installed, pool rules allowing beverages may need to be amended. Already allow drinks, just no “glass.”
j. Status on Sunbiz.net — renewal with current board members & EPM
k. Status on setting up Zoom annual membership
Items j & k: tabled as update from Ethridge pending. Zoom would allow the board to conduct business in event of additional pandemic response. Zoom would only be for use by the board to conduct business, concerns from the legal team about allowing owners to use the service due to inability of board to have oversight on who is actually attending.
1. Status of quotes on repair six balcony upper beams, & Poly pipes for outside facets to bldgs. Were out today, looked at 6 balconies needing repair. Estimate may be pending next week. Potential issues on other balconies have been noticed.
5. 2022 Spyglass Renewal of insurance and Insurance wind mitigation/Renewal Insurance deductible

Class with Emmanuel Sheppard & Condon class informed the Board should have a dedicated line item
for Insurance Deductible.
e Daniel Dorman motioned to create a specific line item in our budgeted reserves for payment of
the insurance deductible. Taylor Loftin Seconded. Discussion: Barry clarified that this is just
establishing the line item to place the funds in the line item, not that we are establishing the actual
deductible amount. Motion passed unanimously.
o 7 Yes votes: Patty Martinez, (via Facetime audio/visual), Daniel Dorman, Jason Robbins,
Angela Henrichs, Barry Boyd, Clif Cirk, Natalia Chapman

Quote on Insurance renewal to include the wind-mitigation pending meeting on the 16 May. Taylor
Robbins asked if Eddie Zaharan has given us a quote. Insurance is due on 24 May; due to pending
litigation we may not be able to switch. Taylor mentioned that he has done so, may be possible to switch
to save. Taylor to reach out to Zaharan.
6. Update SERVPRO — Emergency Ready Profile for storm/hurricane mitigation and permanent repairs —
Coordinate effects
Board in last meeting voted to take on SERVPRO as one of our service providers; no AOB involved. Will
coordinate additional assistance with a company called BlueTeam.

7. Status report from Management Company on review open reports on maintenance issues
Tabled.
8. Architecture Committee
Tabled.
9. Working Groups Reports
1) Budget; 2) Building Maintenance/roads/ parking lot; 3) Landscaping; 4) Pool;
5) Insurance; 6) Update covenants; 7) Community Events
Tabled.
10. New Business
Public Adjuster (PA) from “Advocate Public Adjusting” presented the board with a possible option to
exercise in completing the necessary work following M&H issues and delays. Have been consulting with
Attorneys but have not filed claim. PA discussed what he could do for us — delivered a presentation and
issued a handout of the process that would ensue, were the Association to choose the services of the PA.
Taylor Loftin publicly disclosed his professional relationship with the PA.
a. Blue Team- Hurricane/storm recovery
Patty Martinez spoke with BlueTeam and wanted the Board’s opinion on the services they offered after
sending out the information. Only concern Daniel Dorman issued was that they seemed to focus primarily
on commercial businesses; Patty already spoke with BlueTeam and they were comfortable with us as a
residential property. BlueTeam would provide us with priority services following a storm, something
ServePro does not do. Storm response would mainly cover the roof’s — whatever SERVEPRO cannot do,
BlueTeam can. Would not have to complete an Assignment of Benefits (AOB) with either BlueTeam or
SERVEPRO.
Daniel Dorman motioned that we move forward with BlueTeam as one of our service providers, pending
review of the agreement by the Attorney. Jason Robbins seconded. No discussion, passed unanimously.
o 7 Yes votes: Patty Martinez, (via Facetime audio/visual), Daniel Dorman, Jason Robbins,
Angela Henrichs, Barry Boyd, Clif Cirk, Natalia Chapman

b. Owner contact information
Brianne from Ethridge mentioned a few owners have not provided contact information. Issue is we don’t
have the info whether it’s email or telephone. Transfer of information between property management
companies may have been incomplete as well. As a first-time effort we can request Management
company to send a letter requesting information from the owners; the info is required to be provided by
owners to the HOA. Will adjust our approach as we move forward.
c. Clean Pool Bathrooms
11. Member Comments/Concerns
Owner was concerned regarding insurance in the event a Palm tree limb may fall — covered under our
general liability policy.
When the “budget working group” within the board would be taking place? (Not a posted public meeting,
simply a way for the board to work on budget issues together). Annual budget meeting takes place later in
the year.
Are there “best practices” being considered/formed in the event of a storm? Board is a lot further along
than we were before, board does not have a complete picture due to issues with M&H due to incomplete
and inaccurate documentation. Part of our progress is getting service providers like ServePro and
BlueTeam to assist us in getting a plan of action put together for the community in recovering from a
storm. ServePro has an Emergency Readiness Profile with the community coming, board is being as
proactive as possible.
M&H repair issues discussed with members - M&H was going to file a second claim, but they chose not
to. Response was not satisfactory, and they did not provide us the requested documentation which, if
provided, would have better informed the Board about the status and progress of the claims. Board must
speak with the Attorney to work on obtaining the documentation; if they do not, Board will have to work
with the Attorney to exercise other remedies. Was a cooperative relationship between the company and
the Board, but it has again turned sour. Meetings have been set up, but no shows with M&H — Board is at
the mercy of what M&H chooses to do and not to do. Board will be speaking with the insurance attorney
to discuss. Board has been more than generous as they were showing some good faith effort, but now this
has become an issue.
12. Schedule next Board Meeting
a. June 9, 2022 (Thursday) @ 5:30 PM; Pensacola Branch Library, 239 S. Spring Street, Pensacola
FL.
Completed by Daniel Dorman, Vice President & Secretary