---
title: 2022-07-14 Meeting Minutes
parent: Board Meeting Minutes
pdf24: true
---

This is an automatic transcription of a PDF. You can find the original [here](https://www.epmfl.net/_files/ugd/4ba896_fd52619b468d4d96a533599a3810a63b.pdf){:target="_blank"}. ([backup](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ficToDJ5Ec4yVQNMtejgZWjZG4wL4fFc/view?usp=sharing){:target="_blank"})

# Board Meeting July 14, 2022

Board Meeting Minutes
July 14, 2022 (Thursday)/5:30 PM
Pensacola Library
239 N. Spring Street
PENSACOLA, FL 32502

1. Call meeting to order and establish quorum
5 Board members present: Patty Martinez, President; Daniel Dorman, Vice President &
Secretary; Jason Robbins, Treasurer; Taylor Loftin, Board Member; Angela Heinrichs, Board
Member (via Zoom teleconference).
2 Board members absent: Cliff Cirk, Board Member; Natalia Chapman, Board Member.
2. Review of minutes from Board Meeting 6/9/2022
Taylor Loftin motioned to accept the Board Meeting minutes from 6/9/2022 as written, without
edits, Jason Robbins seconded motion; passed unanimously.
5 YES votes: Patty Martinez, Daniel Dorman, Jason Robbins, Taylor Loftin, Angela
Heinrichs.
Discussion: Patty Martinez inquired with Kevin Ethridge if Spyglass board meeting minutes are
on the Etheridge website? Kevin mentioned there may be some, but not all (discussing with IT
folks). Kevin confirmed that the board would like to wait until the minutes have been approved
by the board prior to posting, Patty agreed that this would be appropriate; once they are approved
they will be posted. Daniel Dorman confirmed that they were not presently available on the
website. Meeting minutes from December 2021 to present will be posted.

3. Financial review ending 4/30/2022, 5/31/2022 & 6/30/22
- Review Aged Receivables — status
Board is aware that financials are incorrect — acknowledges that there have been a review of
financials, but because of the financial and account issues the Board will not be voting to
“approve” financials until the completion of the Financial Audit by the CPA.
Jason Robbins motioned to acknowledge board review of the financials, but to place approval on
hold until completion of CPA review; Taylor Loftin seconded, motion passed unanimously.
o 5 YES votes: Patty Martinez, Daniel Dorman, Jason Robbins, Taylor Loftin,
Angela Heinrichs.

Jason Robbins addressed with Kevin Ethridge the owners behind on their HOA Monthly dues,
Kevin confirmed that they will be sending notices/statements for funds due; units with 30+ days
due will receive notice due and lien. Aged accounts with larger balances will be referred to the
attorney for action.

Spyglass financials are still being reviewed by the CPA as part of the Financial Audit. CPA
submitted a battery of 75 questions to the management company regarding Spyglass funds; Patty
Martinez recognized that due to the change in management companies mid-year that Etheridge
may not be able to address each of the questions as part of the CPA review. Kevin Ethridge
mentioned that a lot of the information would be on the flash drive provided to Ethridge Property
Management from Liberty Community Management.
The management change-over from Liberty was not very clear which resulted in apparent
duplications in the line-entries for our accounting of funds, which made it appear as though the
HOA had more funds that it actually does:
-Insurance Account (duplicate of the the Money Market Acct) and Upgrade Funds (duplicate of
the Hancock Reserve Acct) need to be removed from the balance sheet. With cash on hand, we
have $151, 206.29, excluding the Synovus C.D. of $36,930.39; total cash on hand including C.D.
is $188,136.68
Patty asked Kevin Ethridge confirmed the management fee was for two months. The landscaping
company has been sending the invoices to Liberty Community instead of Ethridge, so the funds
have not been pulled out since April; this will be pulled and funded correctly moving forward.
Patty also asked Kevin regarding the Poly Pipes maintenance; there is an established pattern with
these pipes cracking, leaking, etc. The repair funds should come out of the poly pipe reserve line
and not the operating account, Patty asked Etheridge to take this into account moving forward
and to balance the reserves vs. operating account amounts consistent with past charges to ensure
the correct balances are reflected and funds come from the correct accounts.
There was an issue with a unit in “L” which was not the poly pipe issue, it was a faucet issue.
The vanity had leaked before, was moldy, etc. When Russel got back there, there was no leak,
despite the claim that it was. The owners would be responsible for the damage as this was not a
plumbing/poly pipe issue, this was a faucet issue. Kevin to have a conversation with the
attorneys regarding responsibility of the HOA for the drywall/sheetrock, but not the finish, paint,
and texture. If lack of owner maintenance and upkeep of the pipes outside of the wall creating
issues with drywall would be the responsibility of the owners to repair and replace.
Patty Martinez expressed her thanks for the teamwork, hard work, and support of the Board and
the Management Company and for all of the progress made for the benefit of the community in
the board’s 8 months so far:
Reserve Study
Engineering Survey
Financial Audit & Review
Tree Removal and Trimming
Seal Coating, Lines and Numbers Painted
Repair Pool, New Pool Landscaping and Furniture, Poolhouse Rain Gutter
Completed Repair/Replacement of Corner and Breezeway Lights
Pressure Washing
eoee#eeee#e8e
Cleaned PVC Drainage Pipes
@
@

Lots more work to be done, and in the works! The Board’s hope that the community sees the
improvements and the efforts this volunteer board has made to improve the community for all.
Board thanked Patty Martinez for her tireless leadership and incredible skill in managing the
affairs of the community. Kevin Ethridge stated that, as an outsider looking in, that Spyglass has
come a long way and that there has been a lot of tremendous improvement and that it shows.
4. Old Business
a. Update status on repairs to common elements — 1) paint letters/numbers on curbs
A few still need to be completed. One unit owner stated they did not want theirs painted, owner’s
do not have a choice. If the vehicle is not moved they will have to be towed as the maintenance,
repair, and upkeep of the parking spaces are the responsibility of the HOA.
b. Status on Structural Engineer with Joe DeRuil Assoc.,
Completed balcony inspections. Taylor Loftin has a few keys left with him as part of the
inspections, needs to return them to the management company. GeoTech soil testing is complete.
Metal testing reports are pending. Engineer completed visuals but may have to come back out.
Data will be compiled and a report presented to the board mid-to-late July.
c. Status on financial audit/review & Reserve Study

d. Status on M & H Insurance Claim Status/Repairs — Hurricane Sally
Board cannot relay Privileged and Confidential Attorney-Client information.
e. Next Report on Food Truck event
Have not received any response since we had to decline 3D eats as a vendor food truck, as they
did not provide the requested documentation. Food truck group has Facebook page which we
suspect may have been used as an avenue to communicate that our community was not “worth”
hosting an event for. The food truck events topic will be tabled for the time being.
Discussion regarding liability and requirements of Food Truck vendors to come to the
community. Required documentation from vendors was initially suggested by former Liberty
Community management, providing all of the information may be a barrier to having food trucks
come to the community — issue of liability still present.
Potential “Block Party” with music and food being considered, however.
f. Status on Vending machine in the pool
Overall consensus of the board at last meeting was that the upfront costs and upkeep of the
Vending machine does not presently make good financial sense. Tabled until next spring.
g. Status on setting up Zoom annual membership
HOA Zoom account has been set up for board members.

h. Status of quotes on repair six balcony upper beams, & Poly pipes for outside facets to
bidgs.
Balcony repairs have been approved by the board. Patty reached out to the company to confirm
the quote is still valid. Once confirmation has been obtained, Patty will work with Ethridge to get
notice out to owners for repaired.
Kevin mentioned that a company did come out about 3 weeks ago, could not find the shut-offs.
Company gave a per-building price; information is pending.
i. Status owners contact information-letter sent to owners
Does Ethridge have every owner/renter information, including address and email address, phone
numbers. Kevin stated that they have about 95% of the owner information, but does not have
rental information.
Owner-to-renter ratio in the community is about 50%; bylaws require owners to provide the
HOA renter information. (see Spyglass Point Condominium Declaration of Condominium
section 11.5 “For Leasing” page 22). Will need to research owner insurance requirements for
rentals.
j. Status on signing revised contract for clean pool Bathrooms services
Patty signed the contract; purchased some additional cleaning products.
5. Insurance
- Wind Mitigation
- Insurance Appraisal statue
M&H cannot do the wind-mitigation. Two quotes obtained, one for $2,235.00 and another from
Pensacola Insurance Inspection for $1,900.00. Patty recommended we move forward with
Pensacola Inspection.
Jason Robbins motioned to use Pensacola Insurance Inspections for the community
Wind-Mitigation inspections for $1,900, Taylor Loftin seconded; motion passed unanimously.
o 5 YES votes: Patty Martinez, Daniel Dorman, Jason Robbins, Taylor Loftin,
Angela Heinrichs.

6. Update SERVPRO — Emergency Ready Profile for storm/hurricane mitigation and
permanent repairs — Coordinate effects
SERVEPRO has been completing remediation work for units P3 and P4 — mainline break.
Joe has COVID for the.3« time; once recovered, the site visit will be completed with the board.
7. Status report from Management Company on review open reports on maintenance
issues
Spigots are known issues.
P3 and P4 issues as above.

J4 and mother with trustee — called and would take care of the nuisance issue, email her with any
further issues. Board had communicated the issues many times which led up to the certified
letter; despite the communication it was still an issue. Lines of communication opened are all the
better.
K building poly pipe issues have been addressed.
O building steps have been fixed.
C6 door will be painted, date pending.
D8 affidavit forwarded to attorney; response pending. Will not be signing without attorney
review.

8. Architecture Committee
Tabled.
9. Working Groups Reports
1) Budget; 2) Building Maintenance/roads/ parking lot; 3) Landscaping; 4) Pool;
5) Insurance; 6) Update covenants; 7) Community Events
Working groups have not met; tabled
10. New Business
a. Pest control for wasps
Monthly walkthrough’s will be used to identify wasp nests in common areas, will be addressed.
Wasp nests in limited common elements (owner patios and decks) will remain the responsibility
of the owners. Previously addressed using Management Company services, but is not cost
effective for a single nest. Minimum of $150-200.00 for wasp nest removals — would be more
cost effective if we contracted a pest control company?
Taylor Loftin motioned that we request the services of the pest control company to remove the
nests following the Management company’s monthly walkthroughs identifying wasp nests; Jason
Robbin seconded; motion passed unanimously.
e 5 YES votes: Patty Martinez, Daniel Dorman, Jason Robbins, Taylor Loftin, Angela
Heinrichs.
b. 2021 HOA Tax Returns
CPA will be completing tax returns for HOA.
c. Property Insurance Appraisal
Email for delivery was incorrect; issue now sorted and moving forward.
d. Number of Board Seats on Board of Directors

State Legislature now requires bylaws to specify the number of members on the board of
directors, as opposed to being set at the annual meeting. Presently, our bylaws do not specify
a number of directors; if we do not set the number the number will default to 5 board
members at the end of this year. Patty and Daniel proposed to the board that the board vote to
propose the amendment to the community:
Daniel Dorman motioned to propose to the community the amendment to the bylaws to set
the number of board of directors at seven (7); Taylor Loftin seconded; motion passed
unanimously.
e 5 YES votes: Patty Martinez, Daniel Dorman, Jason Robbins, Taylor Loftin, Angela
Heinrichs.
Board will work with Attorney to be sure to do everything by the book and to work with the
community to amend the bylaws appropriately.
Board has the ability to replace a member of the board, but not a “Director” of the board
because they’re elected positions. Board can solicit community for replacements of nondirector members of the board once a member of the board has resigned.
11. Member Comments/Concerns
Poly pipes discussed — replacement took place for those in the building, but not those on the
outside/external portions of the pipes.
Pest control discussed (specifically wasps).

12. Schedule next Board
a. August 11, 2022 (Thursday) @ 5:30 PM; Pensacola Library, 239 N. Spring Street
PENSACOLA, FL 32502
Prepared by Daniel Dorman, Vice President; Secretary