---
title: 2022-08-11 Meeting Minutes
parent: Board Meeting Minutes
pdf24: true
---

This is an automatic transcription of a PDF. You can find the original [here](https://www.epmfl.net/_files/ugd/4ba896_97d2998d0d214d258e64ecf1b8a9d2b2.pdf){:target="_blank"}. ([backup](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KsWSg9rj3l_v1EHt4xHGfJok2PVIV5U-/view?usp=sharing){:target="_blank"})

# Board Meeting August 11, 2022

SPYGLASS POINT CONDOS OF PENSACOLA FL
HOA BOARD MEETING MINUTES
August 11, 2022 (Thursday)/5:30 PM
Pensacola Library
239 N. Spring Street
PENSACOLA, FL 32502

AGENDA
1. Call meeting to order and establish quorum; quorum established with 5 members
present:
5 Board members present: Patty Martinez, President (via Zoom); Jason Robbins,
Treasurer; Taylor Loftin, Member; Clif Kirk, Member; Angela Heinrichs (via Zoom)
2 Board members absent: Daniel Dorman, Vice President & Secretary; Natalia Chapman,
Member.
2. Review of minutes from Board Meeting 7/14/2022
Jason Robbins motioned to approve the board minutes from July; Angela Heinrichs seconded,
motion passed unanimously:
e 5 Yes votes: Patty Martinez, Jason Robbins, Taylor Loftin, Clif Kirk, Angela Heinrichs
3. Financial review ending 7/31/2022
Jason Robbins relayed that the financial statements cannot yet be voted on by the board as they
are not up-to-date, as the CPA is still reviewing the financial records of the association.
Motion to delay the financial review and approval made by Angela Heinrichs; seconded by Jason
Robbins, motion passed.
e 5 Yes votes: Patty Martinez, Jason Robbins, Taylor Loftin, Clif Kirk, Angela Heinrichs
Patty Martinez wanted to mention for the board and minutes that the HOA’s cash on hand
including CD is $157,797 and some change; change was not added.
4. Old Business
a. Status on Structural Engineer with Joe DeRuil Assoc.,
Patty Martinez spoke with the Engineer, final report should be completed this week or the next.
There ARE some structural issues with the stairs and balconies; discussed a “way forward” and
will be placed in the report.
Once we obtain the final report we will go to the next step which is 2.0, which is an evaluation of
the other buildings which will entail a “scope of work”; then we can contract to have the work
done. The board and community are not qualified to detail the scope of the work required to
remedy the structural issues present in the community.
Taylor Loftin added that the Engineering firm will oversee the work that is completed, will
essentially ensure the work is done correctly. Will need to vote on the contracting companies for
the work, but this is work that must be completed as the safety and security of the community are
at risk.
b. Status on financial audit
Patty Martinez stated the 175 questions sent to Ethridge are now back to the CPA. Federal taxes
have been completed, invoice will be forwarded. Financial review and Audit is a step closer to
being completed. Hopefully will have the review completed by early September.
c. Status on M & H Insurance Claim Status/Repairs — Hurricane Sally
Patty Martinez stated we are still working on this with the Attorneys and M&H — progress has
been made; nothing more to report at this time as information is attorney-client privilege.
d. Food Truck event
Went to Insurance company to discuss what is required; additional insurance policy would be
required and would be an additional $500 per year; due to additional cost the topic has been
tabled.
e. Repair six balcony upper beams, & Poly pipes for outside facets to bldgs.
Patty has reached out to the Construction company that gave the HOA a decent bid on repairing
the upper beams, two emails and phone calls so far, but no response as of yet. Was also in the
engineering reports, may table the repairs as there may be more needing repair under the
engineering issue. Scope of work from engineer may specify the beams to be replaced.
Poly Pipes, no update from Kevin on the status of the poly pipes; awaiting further information
from Kevin on the company to complete the work.
f. Status on Wind Mitigation - scheduled for inspection
Jason Robins mentioned the HOA has scheduled the wind mitigation inspections for August 19;
however, inspections are contingent on attic access. Patty Martinez mentioned that the owners in
the following buildings have NOT responded to requests for access to the attics for the purpose
of completing the wind mitigation inspections: Buildings C, D, E, F,1,J, K, M, O, and P.
Email was sent by Management Company; if an owner did not receive the email, reach out to
Ethridge Property Management to confirm the email address they have on file for you.
5. Insurance
- Insurance Appraisal statue
Appraisal has not yet been scheduled. Property was inspected, determined the siding on “B”
building was a discrepancy; question to the Attorney’s regarding the inspections.
- SERVPRO Invoice
Taylor Loftin reported on SERVPRO invoice for “P” building (P3 and P4) flooded; repairs
required. The damage was a few thousand dollars over the deductible and may not be worth
filing a claim, potentially risking increase in insurance rates. May be worth considering paying it
out of pocket instead, this was Taylor’s recommendation.
Patty Martinez relayed the following figures:
ServePro Invoice is $5,557.72
Ethridge Invoice is $2.287.57
Total for $7,845.29 to repair poly-pipe repairs for flooding on building P.
Jason Robbins motioned that we pay the total $7,845.29 out of our Poly Pipe Reserve accounts at
First Bank; Angela Heinrichs seconded, passed unanimously.
e 5 Yes votes: Patty Martinez, Jason Robbins, Taylor Loftin, Clif Kirk, Angela Heinrichs
6. SERVPRO
- Courtesy Site Visit Coordinate-update
Joe was our POC was departing SERVPRO; transition in progress and will schedule the site visit
with Patty after they’ve completed the necessaries on their end.
7. Property Management Company reports on review open maintenance reports
Patty has not yet received information from Ethridge, however some issues she is aware of:
Door on C6; no drywall work will be approved as the labor is expensive, will farm this out.
I -building quotes for firewall and insulation.
9. Working Groups Reports
1) Budget; 2) Building Maintenance/roads/ parking lot; 3) Landscaping; 4) Pool;
5) Insurance; 6) Update covenants; 7) Community Events
All tabled, no working group meetings.
10. New Business
a. Special Meeting for Unit Membership — TBD
Board is getting close to obtaining the final reports for the Reserve Survey and Engineer Report;
PowerPoint will be put together by the board to share with the community the issues and
potential actions moving forward. Thinking after the first of September, potentially before or
after the September board meeting. May need to have 14 days lead for notice to members; date is
to be determined, but approved, once a set-date has been established.
Patty Martinez motioned to hold a special unit membership meeting, date to be determined, in
the month of September — but will execute once the date has been determined by the Board
President and Vice President with at least 14 days advance notice to unit owners; motion
seconded by Taylor Loftin; motion passed unanimously.
e 5 Yes votes: Patty Martinez, Jason Robbins, Taylor Loftin, Clif Kirk, Angela Heinrichs
b. Inaccuracies in Letter sent by community member to the community to be addressed
are:
Amount of Board Members to Serve on the Board:
It is true that the number of board members everts to 5 if we do not have in our declaration a
specific number. The board voted to have 7 members and not 5, as the letter inaccurately stated.
(Patty Martinez mentioned that Kevin stated the board needs to appoint 2 to 3 board members to
tally the ballots at the annual meeting regarding the amendment required for the number of board
members; Clif, and Angela have volunteered; Patty and Taylor are the third or backups).
Access to Units:
Board has a right under Florida statutes, with advance notice, to access units in case of
emergency or regularly scheduled maintenance. Owners were given adequate notice, and it is up
to the unit owners to notify or have a contingency in place for access to their units for these
items. Cordova Lock and Key did not replace the locks as Taylor Loftin suggested would have
been the norm; may need to be followed up on.
Unit membership should be notifying the management company how to access their unit in case
of emergency or maintenance, whether by key or key code, or other means. Board has been
asking for this and owners have unfortunately been unresponsive. Engineering inspections
proved that some of the keys we have do not work, despite approval from owners.
We ask of unit owners to communicate to the management company how their units can be
accessed after due notice. This includes having up-to-date keys accurate email addresses;
communication has been difficult in getting everyone on the same page.
Board and Ethridge have both learned from this issue, and will work with the community and
management company on greater cooperation moving forward, but this certainly requires unit
owner communication and tenant communication.
11. Member Comments/Concerns
Discussion regarding access to units; board sympathizes but must move forward in keeping with
requirements for emergencies and repairs to uphold the integrity, safety of the community.
Fence issues discussed; community member, David, concerned with kids accessing the
community by jumping over the fence; not a privately gated community. Cannot deny right of
access. Members who see something need to call the police.
Sugartree residents are parking in our community, using our trash services. Patty has reached out
to the HOA president of Sugartree to address the issues with their community, however ability to
act on these issues is limited. Members of the community who see something should obtain what
information/documentation they can and should address it with those individuals.
12. Schedule next Board - September 9, 2022 (Thursday) @ 5:30 PM; Pensacola Library, 239
N. Spring Street PENSACOLA, FL 32502
Completed by Daniel Dorman, President and Secretary using ZOOM meeting recording.
-
—Cc
en a
